Introduction
Please respect the following rules:

- Remain polite, courteous, respectful and constructive
throughout the correction process. The well-being of the community
depends on it.

- Identify with the person (or the group) graded the eventual
dysfunctions of the work. Take the time to discuss
and debate the problems you have identified.

- You must consider that there might be some difference in how your
peers might have understood the project's instructions and the
scope of its functionalities. Always keep an open mind and grade
him/her as honestly as possible. The pedagogy is valid only and
only if peer-evaluation is conducted seriously.
Guidelines
- Only grade the work that is in the student or group's
GiT repository.

- Double-check that the GiT repository belongs to the student
or the group. Ensure that the work is for the relevant project
and also check that "git clone" is used in an empty folder.

- Check carefully that no malicious aliases was used to fool you
and make you evaluate something other than the content of the
official repository.

- To avoid any surprises, carefully check that both the correcting
and the corrected students have reviewed the possible scripts used
to facilitate the grading.

- If the correcting student has not completed that particular
project yet, it is mandatory for this student to read the
entire subject prior to starting the defence.

- Use the flags available on this scale to signal an empty repository,
non-functioning program, a norm error, cheating etc. In these cases,
the grading is over and the final grade is 0 (or -42 in case of
cheating). However, with the exception of cheating, you are
encouraged to continue to discuss your work (even if you have not
finished it) in order to identify any issues that may have caused
this failure and avoid repeating the same mistake in the future.
Attachments
 Subject   Subject   Subiect
Mandatory part
Reminder : Remember that for the duration of the defence, no segfault, no other unexpected, premature, uncontrolled or unexpected termination of the program, else the final grade is 0. Use the appropriate flag. You should never have to edit any file except the configuration file if it exists. Otherwise the defence is over and the final grade will be 0. Those rules are actives thoughout the whole defence.

Author file
Check that the author file is at the root of the repository
and formatted as explained in the subject. If not defence is
over and the final grade will be 0.
Configuration file
Check that you can configure the point of view and the simples objects by a
configuration file or by passing parameters to the program.
If not defence is over and the final grade will be 0.
Display's technical component
In this section we'll evaluate the display's technical
component. Run the program and execute the following 3 tests.
If at least one fails, no points will be awarded for this
section. Move to the next one.

- A window must open when launching the program and stay open
during the whole program's execution.

- Hide either part of or the whole window with another one or
the screen's borders, minimize the window and maximize it back.
In every cases, the window's content must remain consistant.

- Ask the student to show you the code prooving that expose was
managed properly and doesn't involve a re-calculation of the
whole image or even only a part of it.
The 4 Basic Shapes
In this section we'll evaluate the 4 basic shapes. Run the program
and execute the following 4 tests. If at least one fails, no points
will be awarded for this section. Move to the next one.

- Place a sphere at the following coordinates {0, 0, 0}, the
camera facing the sphere, and display the rendered image. The
sphere should be visible and displayed without glitch.

- Place a plane with a null z value, the camera facing the plan,
and display the rendered image. The plane should be visible and
displayed without glitch.

- Place a cone's center at the following coordinates {0, 0, 0}
extending along the y axis, the camera facing the cone, and
display the image rendered. The cone should be visible and
displayed without glitch.

- Place a cylinder extending along the y axis, the camera facing
the cylinder, and display the image rendered. The cylinder
should be visible and displayed without glitch.
Translations and rotations
In this section we'll evaluate that rotation and translation
transformations can be applied on scene's objects. Run the
program and execute the following 2 tests. If at least one
fails, no points will be awarded for this section. Move to
the next one.

- Place two spheres at the following coordinates {0, 0, 0},
the camera facing those spheres. Then put a translation
on one of the two spheres oriented in a direction parallel
to the camera's, of a greater distance than the sphere's
diameter and display the rendered image. Both spheres should
be visible and displayed without glitch.

- Place a cylinder extending along the y axis, the camera facing
the cylinder. Then put a 90° rotation (PI/2 radian) along
the z axis and display the rendered image. The cylinder
should be visible and displayed without glitch.
Multi-objects
In this section we'll evaluate that it's possible to put
several object in one scene. Run the program and execute
the following 2 tests. If at least one fails, no points
will be awarded for this section. Move to the next one.

- Place several intersecting objects on the scene, such as
for example a sphere and a cone, and display the rendered
image. Both objects should be visible and displayed
without glitch. (especially where both object intersect).

- Execute the same test, but ensure it's possible to
place several times the same object, for example two
cylinders and a plane.
Camera's position and direction
In this section we'll evaluate that rotation and translation
transformations can be applied on scene's objects. Run the
program and execute the following 4 tests. If at least one
fails, no points will be awarded for this section. Move to
the next one.

- Generate a random scene and place the camera extending
along the x axis pointed towards the following coordinates
{0, 0, 0} and display the rendered image. The scene
must be visible and displayed without glitch.

- Generate a random scene and place the camera extending
along the y axis pointed towards the following coordinates
{0, 0, 0} and display the rendered image. The scene
must be visible and displayed without glitch.

- Generate a random scene and place the camera extending
along the z axis pointed towards the following coordinates
{0, 0, 0} and display the rendered image. The scene
must be visible and displayed without glitch.

- Generate a random scene and place the camera at a random
location which isn't on any axis or a diagonal, pointed
towards the following coordinates {0, 0, 0} and display
the rendered image. The scene must be visible and
displayed without glitch.
Brightness 1/2
In this section we'll evaluate brightness on scene's objects.
Run the program and execute the following 2 tests. If at least
one fails, no points will be awarded for this section. Move to
the next one.

- Place a sphere at the following coordinates {0, 0, 0}, the camera
facing the sphere, and put a spot left or right of the camera
but positioned in such a way that the sphere will be lit sideways.
Display the rendered image. The sphere should be visible,
enlightened and displayed without glitch.

- Place a sphere at some coordinates resulting from a translation,
the camera facing the sphere, and place a spot left or right of
the camera but positioned in such a way that the sphere will be
lit sideways. Display the rendered image. The sphere should be
visible, properly enlightened and displayed without glitch.
Properly means that the halo of light should be computed
after translation not before.
Brightness 2/2
In this section we'll evaluate shadow management generated by
scene's objects. Run the program and execute the following 2
tests. If at least one fails, no points will be awarded for
this section. Move to the next one.

- Place a vertical spot, a sphere and a plane. The spot liting
the sphere's position to create a sphere shadow on the plane.
Put the camera aside so we can see the sphere, the plane and
the sphere's shadow on the plane. The shadow must be properly
displayed and without glitch.

- Put a complex scene together with several objects like on
illustration V.6 page 10 of the subject. Shadows must be
properly displayed and without glitch.
Bonus
Reminder : Remember that for the duration of the defence, no segfault, nor other unexpected, premature, uncontrolled or unexpected termination of the program, else the final grade is 0. Use the appropriate flag. This rule is active thoughout the whole defence. We will look at your bonuses if and only if your mandatory part is EXCELLENT. This means that your must complete the mandatory part, beginning to end, and your error management must be flawless, even in cases of twisted or bad usage. So if the mandatory part didn't score all the point during this defence bonuses will be totally IGNORED.

Shine effect
In this section we'll evaluate shine effect on the scene's
objects. Run the program and execute the following test.
If it fails, no points will be awarded for this section.
Move to the next one.

- The shine effect is characterized by the saturation of
brightness towards the color of the spot, where the object's
surface is perpendicular to the light. Put togethere a scere
with a spot enlightening a sphere without shine effect and then
with shine effect. Is the shine effect clearly visible?
Multi-spots
In this section we'll evaluate that it's possible to have
several spots in the same scene. Run the program and execute
the following test. If it fails, no points will be awarded
for this section.

- Put together a scene with several objects including at
least a plane on which shadows will be projected as well
as 2 spots at the minimum. Check that brightness, shadows
and shine effect (if implemented) work properly.